# Quick Start
This article is designed to get a new plugin developer started with plugin development. Please see additional articles for more details on any given topic.

A Data Record IO Plugin is functionally a pre-stubbed-out, class-based state machine which is loaded into an engine which handles advancing the states and transferring data between plugins. 

Most developers will simply need to fill out the relevant states to add their custom functionality. Store any data that the plugin needs to maintain (such as file handles) in the private class control. Any parameters expected from the customer can be added to the Configuration.ctl.

## Prerequisites

1. LabVIEW 2020 or newer (for plugin development)
2. Python3 (to run setup scripts and automated tests)
3. VI Package Manager (to install plugin dependencies)
4. Git (to grab the repo from https://github.com/ni/data-record-ad)

## Setup

1. Clone the Git repo
1. Install the Plugin Creation Wizard via Python Script [todo]
1. Install the CustomDataTypes via Python Script [todo]
1. (Optional) Build all existing plugins via Python Script [todo]

## Making a New Plugin

1. In LabVIEW, navigate to File->Create Project->ADAS->ADAS IO Plugin Template, and follow the prompts to create the new plugin.

1. Most of the files generated by the template are needed for the plugin to operate, but do not need to be (and should not be) modified. To find a list of what actions should be taken to customize the plugin, open the Bookmark Manager (View>>Bookmark Manager). Each of the #CodeRecommended bookmarks shows a place within the plugin where you can customize the behavior and provides advice on what kind of behavior should go in each state.

1. Plugins must be compiled in order to be loaded by the Data Record AD executable. Run the default Build Specification provided by the plugin template to build the compiled plugin (PPL) to the default location.

## Running the Application

1. Run the *example configuration* and see *expected result* [todo]




